life on earth is powered by the sun
the closest star to our planet
its life-giving rays take just eight
minutes to reach us
striking the earth head-on at the
equator
it's here that they deliver the most
intense solar energy on the planet
enabling life to flourish
[Music]
thanks to its location just south of the
equator
the sedan getty sun rises high in the
sky throughout the year
delivering 12 hours of intense solar
energy
every day
with few trees to shade the ground
the animals here have learned to deal
with the blistering heat of the dry
season
some have resorted to rather extreme
measures
the marabou stalk has one of the
strangest cooling systems in the
serengeti
[Music]
this peculiar bird defecates on its own
legs turning them white
[Music]
and as the droppings evaporate in the
hot sun
it cools the bird in much the same way
as our sweat but as the sun's heat turns
the grasslands to tinder
life on the savannah is about to change
one spark is all it takes a fire
is born
whipped by the wind it rages across the
sun-baked land
consuming over half of the serengeti
every year
animals large and small race to escape
the flames
[Music]
but for the marabou stalks the fire
brings food
each fleeing insect a protein-rich snack
they flock to the burning grasses from
miles around
to feast amidst the chaos
as the fire starts to retreat others
brave the heat
patrolling the front line for easy
pickings
eventually the fuel runs out and the
flames die
the savannah a scorched and blackened
land
but the grasses here have evolved with
fire
storing their resources safely below
ground in starch-rich
roots and the rainy season brings
all the moisture they need to flourish
ripened by the constant sun and
fertilized by ash
the savannah grows anew
some grasses gaining up to three
centimeters
in just 24 hours
once again the fire brings feast
this surge of life from the ashes feeds
the next generation
[Music]
the new shoots are rich in essential
minerals for nursing moms
and plenty of grass means plenty of milk
in just three weeks half a million
wildebeest calves are born in the
serengeti
[Music]
unlike the devastating forest fires in
the amazon rainforest
grass fires have been a natural process
here for hundreds of millions of years
driven by the sun this cycle of renewal
supports the greatest herds on the
planet
without it these rich savannas and the
incredible life within them
would likely disappear
[Music]
[Applause]
you